[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: All right.
Welcome to "Disclosure."
I'm your host,
David Wilcock, and I
am very excited to bring you Dr.
Pete Peterson today, in which
we are going to get into the
secret history of classified
computer chips.
And what you're going
to learn in this episode
is one of the main
reasons why insiders
have said that the technology
level in the classified world
could be 20, 50, or even
hundreds of years ahead
of what we have out
there in the open world.
It's truly fascinating
information.
And here to share it
with us is Pete Peterson,
who is arguably one of
the most significant
technological figures in
the world of black ops.
So Pete, welcome
back to the show.
>>PETE PETERSON: Thank you much.
>>DAVID: This business of
computer technology potentially
being much better in
the classified world
than what's out
there now may seem
unbelievable to some people.
But before we get
into this, I just
want to say that you
have introduced me
to several people who
are aware of your chip
and who have
independently confirmed
to me how powerful it is and
that it really does work.
And in some cases, they're
working on the software for it.
>>PETERSON: Well,
that's correct.
I can't take full
credit for the chip,
but I have marshaled it
for various organizations--
I'll just leave it at that--
who were good
people, white hats.
And I saw that there was a
computer language some years
ago in the early '70s, at
least when I got into it.
And at that time, I was
studying under a gentleman
by name of Chuck Peddle, who was
responsible for the chip that
became the Apple
2, and the Atari,
and the Commodore
64, and et cetera.
I consider it the first
chip that was actually
designed to be a computer chip.
Intel's chip was designed to--
and I was involved a
small amount in that
from a higher level.
And it was designed
to be a chip that
ran an intelligent terminal.
And it was way
too slow for that,
so it never did really take on.
And then a computer
hobbyist down in Arizona
made it into a kit,
a computer kit,
and it worked similar to
the very early things that
were going on in those days
before there were actually
microprocessor chips
out in the world.
>>DAVID: Were you trained
by some of these instructors
that you had in
computer technology?
Did you have a background
in understanding how
computers work and all that?
>>PETERSON: No.
As with many things,
the government
wanted me to
understand computers,
and so they put me with
people that designed chips.
And then they put
me with some people
that were, very
early on, making what
are called high-level computer
languages, like BASIC.
It's really a
high-level language,
but it's higher
than the language
you write for the hardware
that's inside the chip.
>>DAVID: Now, you
mentioned Chuck Peddle.
Was he the first computer expert
that you worked with, or were
there others before him?
>>PETERSON: There were
a few others before him.
But these were all on what were
called bit slice computers,
PDP-8s.
The Russians have done just
about everything with a PDP-8
that we can do with all the
different computers we've
come up with.
That was a very early chip by
Digital Equipment Corporation,
or DEC.
>>DAVID: Is PDP-8 like
a punch card computer?
>>PETERSON: It started
out punch card.
It has some switches
on the front of it
that look like
tongue depressors.
>>DAVID: I remember
being a little kid,
and my mom had a job at General
Electric where she worked
on a punch card computer.
And in my closet, I
found some of the cards.
And I remember being
really puzzled by this.
It was like thin
cardboard, and there
were a lot of little
rectangular cut-outs on it.
Those cards were intended to
have computer programs on them
of some kind?
>>PETERSON: Well, that's
how you programmed.
You had a little piece
of sponge material,
and you set the card
on the sponge material,
and then you had a
little plastic stick
with a little square.
There were punches in the
card, but they weren't
punched all the way out.
They were punched
so it would be easy
for you to hit it and punch a--
they called them chaff--
loose.
And you'd set it on
this sponge material,
like a very thin brillo
pad-- brillo sponge.
And you could go down and
punch out certain numbers.
>>DAVID: OK.
Now, you mentioned Chuck
Peddle, you mentioned
that this chip that
he had developed
became commonly
used in the Apple,
the Commodore 64,
Atari, et cetera.
Because what we're
leading up to--
and I don't want to spend too
much time talking about stuff
that's already well-known.
When did you start to find
out about the possibility
of building a computer chip
that might be much more
powerful than
anything that we even
have now in the open world?
>>PETERSON: Well, the
association that I had--
a very minor association
that I had with a fellow
by name of Chuck Moore, who
wrote a computer operating
system called Forth--
F-O-R-T-H. It would
have been F-O-U-R-T-H,
but we didn't have enough bits
in the systems at that time
to put the U in.
So it was just F-O-R-T-H. And
he built it to run the telescope
at the Kitt Peak
Observatory down in Arizona.
And he had a very
bright young lady
that was working with him by
the name Elizabeth Rather.
She still, as far as I
know, has a company called
Forth Incorporated.
And then I was also
working with my cousin, who
we were working on the
gas chromatographic mass
spectrometer and computer system
that went on the Viking Lander.
>>DAVID: Oh, OK.
>>PETERSON: And at a company
called Universal Monitor.
And he had a couple
of Forth geniuses
that were working for him.
Forth was just
new as a language.
And unfortunately, it
was a read only language.
And when you wrote in it, it was
hard to go back and look at it
and determine what
you actually--
how it was actually working.
So they called it a
read only language.
And later on, other
not nearly so powerful
languages allowed you to write
in a higher-level language
and read in a
higher-level language,
and it made it
easier to program,
but nothing ever as powerful
and as fast as Forth.
>>DAVID: One of the
things you told me
which follows up with what
you just said-- and I just
want to make this
statement without getting
into a lot of detail because we
don't want to lose our viewers.
I know you're extremely
knowledgeable on all this stuff
because you designed the chip.
We're not talking to
a scientific audience.
But anyway-- they appreciate
some of this stuff,
but if we get too technical,
we're going to lose people.
So one of the things
you told me off camera
in previous conversations
we've had over the years
is that if our
computers had gone
in the direction of using
Forth instead of the languages
that they're actually using even
now, that they would be vastly
faster and more powerful.
So would you say that
all the stuff that we've
done with computers
up until now was
based on some original software
that was never intended
to be used in a fast machine?
They didn't realize where this
was going to end up going?
>>PETERSON: Well, I personally
think that Chuck Moore
knew all the time.
But it was designed to do
some very complex operations.
It was a very good
chip for robotics.
>>DAVID: What was?
>>PETERSON: Well,
the Forth language
was a good language for
robotics-- very simple,
very easy to write.
And it has some
limitations that way,
but those have
mostly been overcome.
And Russia has probably--
I don't know off
the top of my head,
but I would think
probably 75% to 80%
of all Russian programming
is done in Forth.
I know that I'm a member of
one of the Russian astronautics
associations, and I know
that their programming
is done almost entirely
in Forth because it's
perfect for that kind of
operation, robotic operation.
>>DAVID: So I think one of the
stumbling blocks that somebody
watching this show might have--
so let's try to get into this
now for a little bit-- is
somebody is going to be
there at home thinking
that they're the highly
intelligent skeptic,
that they're smarter than you.
And what they're going to
be saying in their mind
is Pete is a fraud because we
know that chips are printed
on silicon, that there's
only so many processors you
can cram onto one chip
before it overheats.
You can only get to so
many speeds of megahertz
before you can't go any farther.
How could this guy
say that he's designed
a chip back in the
'70s or whenever
that was vastly more powerful
than what we even have now?
This guy is a crazy old man.
>>PETERSON: Unfortunately,
that's not a thing that I say.
I don't say that
back then it was.
I say the chips today are more
powerful by far than anything
out there.
And there's one chip that does
about 86 billion operations
per second.
>>DAVID: So Pete,
the fastest computers
that people are using
now have processors
that would be somewhere usually
between 2.1 gigahertz to 3.5
gigahertz in speed.
And when you say that
you're dealing with billions
of operations per
second, could you just
give us a very
generic statement?
Is that is that 10 times more
powerful than a typical chip?
Is that 100 times more
powerful than a typical chip
that we have now?
>>PETERSON: Well, right now,
what we're working with is
probably--
if you take the
2 and 3 gigahertz
chips that are out there,
most of them have four cores,
or some have eight cores now.
The chip I'm working
with now has 144 cores.
>>DAVID: On one chip?
>>PETERSON: On one chip.
The chip is about a
tenth of an inch square,
so it's not like
these big chips.
It runs on very, very low power.
It can run at--
one of the chips one of the--
one of the cores on
one of the new chips
will take 5 to 10
times as much power
as all 144 cores
on the small chip.
And then it's the way the
software and the chips
work together that
around the outside,
they're in a matrix,
an xy matrix,
like ice cubes in a tray.
>>DAVID: So would it be like a
matrix of 12 by 12 for the 144?
>>PETERSON: No,
it's not 12 by 12.
There are reasons for that.
But it comes up to 144.
And the chips can
run concurrently,
they can run individually,
and they can run together.
You can say, well, these
five chips go do this,
these two chips go do that, and
maybe this one chip does this.
And you try to--
the software after you write
it looks at itself and decides,
if I ran this project with
three chips and this project
with six chips, they would
both finish about the same time
doing very different things.
For example, in a
cell phone computer,
one chip is doing
graphics work and writing
the picture on the screen.
One chip is converting
that from things
that have been transmitted.
One chip is making the
sound, or two chips
are making the stereo sound.
>>DAVID: You told
me at one point
when we were talking
about this chip
that 85% of all the components
in a modern smartphone
could be eliminated,
and they could all
be put into one of these chips.
And how much of
the chip would you
have leftover if you did that?
>>PETERSON: Depending on
what smartphone, probably
as much as 90%.
>>DAVID: Wow.
And how much faster is
this chip, do you think?
At the billions of
operations per second
you mentioned,
how much faster is
it than what's out there now?
>>PETERSON: Well, there
are things out there
that are as fast,
but the problem
is that they're running
much, much more software
code in order to
accomplish the same task.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: So it's
one of the things
that there are five or
six things that are all
relative one to the other.
The idea is that it's
a very tiny chip.
It takes very little power.
It has a lot of cores in it.
It's able to do a lot
of tasks simultaneously.
And it could reduce the
cost of virtually anything
that it was doing immeasurably,
and it would be faster.
>>DAVID: At one point, Pete,
you told me that there was
a certain group of people who
didn't know about your chip
but were interested
in it, and that they--
you told me that they ran
some kind of calculation on it
that was supposed to take,
I guess, two weeks to solve.
And how long did it actually
take with this chip?
>>PETERSON: As I remember,
it was about 40 seconds.
>>DAVID: 40 seconds
instead of two weeks?
>>PETERSON: Right.
>>DAVID: And that would have
been two weeks with, I assume,
a really good computer,
like a powerful computer?
>>PETERSON: Well,
it wouldn't-- yes,
it would have been an
off-the-shelf computer.
>>DAVID: So this kind
of stuff that you're
describing right now, there is
some things online that sound
like that.
And it's normally called
quantum computing, the idea
being that if you work
within the wave particle
duality, that you could get
serial calculations instead
of parallel calculations--
where, in other words,
all the calculations
are happening at the same
time instead of one at a time.
Is that somehow related to
what you were doing with this?
>>PETERSON: Well, it's
where I was headed.
And that's where I'm
actually headed now,
is I'm trying to make a new
type of quantum computer.
And you're right that you
can do parallel processing,
but with the same circuitry.
>>DAVID: All right.
So I was curious, and we
just did a little break here
so I could look this up
regarding the millions
of instructions per second.
And Pete, let me just
read some of this to you.
And I just want to get
your comments at the end.
I just want to get this out.
And this is just--
Wikipedia seems to
be the best resource
that I could find easily
on instructions per second.
And so what we
have here-- when we
get into millions of
instructions per second,
they say that in the late
1970s, mini computer performance
was compared using VAX, MIPS,
or Millions of Instructions
Per Second.
And then they say that
the IBM System 370
model was running at 1 million
instructions per second.
Then they also say
that there's millions
of whetstone
instructions per second.
But here's where it
gets interesting.
The first PC compiler had a
4.8-megahertz processor with
0.01 MWIPS, or Millions of
Whetstone Instructions Per
Second.
Then they say, OK, we'll just go
with millions of instructions.
So results on a 2.4-gigahertz
Intel Core 2 Duo vary from 9.7
million instructions per second,
59 million instructions per
second via BASIC compiler, 347
million instructions per second
using 1987 FORTRAN, 1 billion,
534 million instructions per
second through HTML
Java to 2 billion,
4 million instructions per
second using a modern C,
C++ compiler.
So it looks like 2.4
billion is about as high
as you can get with the
kind of standard processors
that we have.
So what's the instructions
per second that your chip is
running at this point?
>>PETERSON: Well, it's not a
matter of what it is running.
It's what it can run.
It's fairly new, and we're
still writing software for it.
But at least 86 billion
instructions per second.
>>DAVID: 86 billion?
>>PETERSON: Right.
>>DAVID: So the processors that
most people are using, as we
just saw, are only 2.4 billion.
And you're doing 86
billion with this chip.
>>PETERSON: Right.
There are more
individual chips--
individual processors
on the chip itself.
>>DAVID: People are
going to think that--
again, they're going to have a
hard time with this if they're
from a technical background.
And I think another
thing they're
going to have a
hard time with is
nobody could put 144
cores on one chip
without the thing completely
overheating and smoking.
So what's the secret sauce?
>>PETERSON: Oh, this chip
has been out for seven years.
>>DAVID: OK.
But what can you tell us about
why this chip is so fast?
What is different about it
from other chips out there?
>>PETERSON: It's just a
matter of architecture.
The architecture-- the basic
software it was designed
to run--
it was designed to run a
moderately high-level language,
Forth, directly rather than
compile a bunch of simple--
the basic processor runs simple
instructions, any processor.
The Forth instructions are
probably just as simple,
but there they were chosen
right in the beginning.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
I remember you telling me
that Forth involves principles
of stacking in which--
you had said that a
typical computer, if you
hit the J key and then a
J shows up on the screen,
that there could
be transfers going
on between the
CPU and the memory
back and forth, just for
that one little thing.
So there's all
this wasted effort.
And you said with
the Forth language
that you could have a whole
series of instructions that
can be taken from
one stack to another,
which eliminates so much of that
redundancy from the actual--
>>PETERSON: It eliminates
a lot of redundancy
in typical calculations, yes.
>>DAVID: So that's
part of the secret?
>>PETERSON: It's
part of the secret.
Part of the secret is obviously
new technology and building
chips, and building
chips much smaller.
A smaller chip
takes less current.
Less current makes less heat.
Less heat lets you
run the chip faster.
You get more
instructions per second.
And this chip is
a CMOS-type chip,
which means it's complimentary
metal oxide semiconductor.
It runs on voltage
rather than amperage.
So by its nature and
its architecture,
it takes less current.
>>DAVID: When we've talked
about this privately,
you mentioned the Novix chip.
Is that something
we can talk about?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
The Novix chip was
an early chip that
tried to run Forth directly
and did run Forth directly.
It was used in
several areas that I
don't know whether
I should talk about,
or I can't talk about right now
without maybe getting approval.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: But it
was made available.
It was hidden in plain sight.
It was made available
to the world.
And I think probably today,
most of those Novix chips are
bought-- and they're
still being produced--
are being bought
by the Russians.
>>DAVID: Now, is it
possible that somebody
could get a Novix chip
and not understand
how to harness its power?
>>PETERSON: Oh, absolutely.
>>DAVID: Run much
simpler software on it,
that kind of thing?
>>PETERSON: No.
You wouldn't run simpler
software, I don't think.
>>DAVID: OK.
But they just wouldn't be
able to access its capability?
>>PETERSON: No, they would
be able to access it.
The problem is in learning
the language Forth
and then applying it.
I've always called Forth
the best-kept secret
in almost all
computer laboratories,
because they run into places
where running a typical system,
the software wouldn't run
fast enough to really do
the job, especially when you're
in a high-end graphics area.
>>DAVID: One of
the things that you
said that is truly
remarkable was
who attended the
class that you taught
in the '70s on how to build
a personal computer back
when nobody was doing it.
So could you tell us some
of the names of the people
that were in that
class that you taught?
>>PETERSON: Well, it
wasn't a class I taught,
but it was a class that--
I had a company by
the name of Cyberdyne
that took a computer that used
the same chip that the Apple 2
and the Commodore 64, the
Atari, early days in the Atari,
and that type of thing.
These were computers that
didn't even have keyboards.
As far as I know,
ours was the first one
that had a typical
typewriter keyboard on it.
It was a single,
12-inch square board.
It had input, output.
It had memory manipulation.
And the idea was to
use it to teach people
to use microprocessor chips
and to use machine language
programming.
And then we had other
chips that would go in.
So you could get a pair of
chips that would allow you
to program in Forth.
We had a pair of chips
you could program in Lisp.
We had a pair of chips you
could program in BASIC.
>>DAVID: But you said something
very provocative there,
which is that your company
was called Cyberdyne Systems.
>>PETERSON: No, just Cyberdyne.
>>DAVID: Or just Cyberdyne,
which a lot of people
are going to be familiar
with if they've ever
seen certain films.
>>PETERSON: Oh, they are.
And we copyrighted it.
And we ran that company
for about five or six years
and then went off to do other
things, and specific things
in that area.
>>DAVID: But what
I was getting to
was that the guy who actually
built the first Apple
Computer, Steve Wozniak, you
claim he was in your class.
>>PETERSON: The first class that
we held was a mail order class,
and he was a buyer
of that system.
And then he built
an Apple 1 computer
that was very much like
know the one that we did.
Also in the same class was the
gentleman that started Atari.
>>DAVID: Nolan Bushnell?
>>PETERSON: Nolan Bushnell.
His class project
came out, as far
as I know, as the "Pong" game.
>>DAVID: "Pong," right.
Yeah.
I remember playing that in 1976.
>>PETERSON: And it was, I
think, the first microprocessor
game in the marketplace.
>>DAVID: It might have been
a little later than 1976,
but I do remember "Pong."
Yeah, absolutely.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
And so there was
"Pong," and then
and he came out with
the CBM computers.
I can't remember what the--
Commodore Business Machines.
>>DAVID: Oh, OK.
>>PETERSON: And they came
out with several computers,
and then the Commodore 64.
>>DAVID: So you actually have--
and your company, Cyberdyne,
has this very interesting role
in the history of
computing in terms of Apple
is now probably the dominant
computer company in the world.
Atari has been a very,
very successful video game
manufacturer.
>>PETERSON: Which is
now Chuck E Cheese
with all of its robotically
controlled games and things.
>>DAVID: That's another thing.
When we looked up
Nolan Bushnell,
that's another thing
that he founded.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
And so a lot of those
people started out
programming a little push-button
computer called the KIM.
And then we made a
computer that was
similar to that called an
AIM-65 and wrote books for it.
>>DAVID: But we're dancing
around something here.
We're getting
dangerously close to it,
but we're still
dancing around it.
You build this computer that
obviously is not the one
that Steve Wozniak ordered
by mail in the class
to learn how to build.
>>PETERSON: No.
It was the one he
ordered as far as I know.
>>DAVID: But you built
another computer chip that
had very powerful capability.
>>PETERSON: That was much later.
>>DAVID: That was much later.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
We wanted a chip that
would run Forth directly.
And when I say "we,"
this was a thing
that was done by a
private corporation that
was owned by the government.
I never got the
exact thing on that.
But the government was
trying to get things done,
and it would come out.
And it wanted to hide
it in plain sight.
So they would come out and
put money behind doing things
in that field.
And I was involved in
some of the planning
stages of those things.
And I was involved
in putting people
together and making corporations
and making those things happen.
>>DAVID: Now, you said, when
we were talking about this chip
a little while ago,
that if, for example, it
was doing smartphone
emulation, that it
would be able to
assess its own needs
and repurpose its
processors accordingly.
And that, to me, starts
to sound like a form
of electronic intelligence.
>>PETERSON: That was,
of course, a goal
that we had to come up to
electronic intelligence.
And then we found out--
I was working with another
gentleman in mathematics,
and we found out that most
of mathematics is wrong.
He's in the process now of
writing a book that he plans
to come out with very soon.
>>DAVID: Yeah, and
I've spoken to him.
>>PETERSON: That shows that.
And I think you've met him.
>>DAVID: Yeah,
we've spoken to him.
And met him in person.
It's fascinating, but it's
probably way more technical
than we could get into here.
>>PETERSON: It definitely is.
It's way more technical.
>>DAVID: I'll just say
that what I took from it
is that if you count in
base 6 instead of base 10,
that all of a sudden, you
get all these benefits
like these dimensionless
constants like pi and phi,
and the e natural
base of logarithms.
But these numbers
that are supposed
to have eternal decimal
points that never change,
you start to get a
string that actually
keeps repeating after
the decimal point,
suggesting that the
universe is running
in some kind of six-based
counting system.
>>PETERSON: Well, it's
three-based counting system,
trinary system.
And so I wanted to build
a quantum computer that
would run in trinary.
And then we could
put a whole new spin
behind the mathematics.
And I'm waiting for
him to release his book
before I say anything about it.
But it will change virtually
everything in mathematics
that I know of.
>>DAVID: You mentioned
Zhegalkin algebra to me before.
Is that something we
can talk about, or no?
>>PETERSON: A little
bit about that.
Zhegalkin algebra is a
complete, closed algebra.
It allows you to do a lot of
artificial intelligence type
things.
It allows the computer
to, in many cases,
program itself to
do certain things.
The more you teach it,
the more it learns.
>>DAVID: But Zhegalkin
algebra basically
is using this trinary system.
Is that right in some sense?
>>PETERSON: It can.
It's very complex.
These are very,
very complex things.
>>DAVID: But you mentioned
that once a computer chip uses
Zhegalkin algebra,
then it could develop
artificial intelligence.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
It can be programmed to do that.
>>DAVID: So the thing
that is obviously
going to be on
everybody's mind here
is you mentioned that your
company was called Cyberdyne.
You mentioned that you're
working on a very, very
powerful computer chip.
You mentioned that it may
have artificial intelligence.
And anybody who's seen
the movie "Terminator"
knows that it's about cyborgs
with artificial intelligence
built by a company
called Cyberdyne.
So what's going on here?
>>PETERSON: I have no
idea how they got--
I have no idea.
I just know that
we copyrighted it.
And as far as I know, the
copyright is still valid.
We didn't care if
other people used it
because we weren't using it.
I don't know if we'll
use it in the future
because we have one--
something that will,
I think, a little bit
better describe what
we're doing now.
And we're waiting
for publication
of the new mathematics
to come out.
For example, there
was a huge contest
to solve Fermat's Last Theorem,
and it was finally solved.
And I can't remember how
many pages and pages.
Fermat said he solved
it in the blank spaces
in one of his textbooks.
>>DAVID: Well, let me
just stop you right there.
Are you aware of there being
any type of Androids or cyborgs
that have ever been built?
>>PETERSON: Oh, yes, of course.
Especially-- just
as an example, Honda
has built all kinds of cyborgs.
And there are
quite a few others.
There's another one
that hopefully we'll
be able to talk about very soon.
You and I have talked
about that extensively.
And the man is
retired now, and I
want to make sure
that everything
is OK to discuss that.
But as far as I
can tell, I can't
tell the difference between
that particular cyborg
and a human being.
>>DAVID: That's
very provocative.
>>PETERSON: Yep.
>>DAVID: So you're
saying that this guy,
who you and I both
know his name--
and we've talked about
him extensively--
was able to design and
build a cyborg that
was indistinguishable
from a human being?
>>PETERSON: Well, if you--
>>DAVID: For all
intents and purposes.
>>PETERSON: For all
If you took it apart, you could
tell it wasn't a human being.
I think I remember telling you
I was introduced to this being,
and then it was turned around,
and the back was unzipped,
and I could see the
inside of it was
mechanical and fluidic and
electronic and so forth.
>>DAVID: And what year
was this, roughly?
>>PETERSON: Probably
about 1988, maybe '89.
>>DAVID: So if the technology
was at that level at 1988,
do you think it's possible
that when James Cameron wrote
"Terminator," that maybe he was
worried about where this could
go if he was aware of some
research that was already
being conducted?
>>PETERSON: Well.
I think there's been a lot of
worry about where it can go,
and I'm not too sure that
it's not well-founded.
We hear Kurzweil now talking
about within 20 years,
we're going to be
probably 20% or 30%
mechanical as human beings.
We'll adopt
mechanical parts that
allow us to do
things much faster,
or electronic or mechanical.
And he thinks that
that will very rapidly
spread to where probably
the only thing left is the--
maybe the basic brain,
if even that much,
will be left as biological.
>>DAVID: Would you say that
these chips that you built
could help facilitate
that type of AI?
>>PETERSON: Well, I certainly
was hoping they might.
On the other hand, I won't say
there is a moral obligation,
but there's certainly
sometimes an ethical obligation
to make sure that we don't
generate something that's
going to wipe us out,
which is of course the text
for many sci-fi movies.
>>DAVID: Well, you've
actually just said
here that you saw this being
that was indistinguishable
from a human being,
but was actually
some kind of a machine.
So clearly, the
technology is there.
>>PETERSON: Well, technology
increases rapidly.
>>DAVID: And this was--
you said '88 or something?
>>PETERSON: '88.
>>DAVID: The movie
"The Terminator"
said that the guy who developed
the chip that led to these
cyborgs needed to be
murdered-- in "Terminator 2,"
I think is what it said--
to save humanity.
So why would they say that?
>>PETERSON: The
technology, if it got away,
would exceed the technology
of an average human.
>>DAVID: So these could be--
>>PETERSON: Capability.
>>DAVID: So these machines could
be potentially living among us,
and we wouldn't necessarily
know that they were there.
>>PETERSON: That certainly
could be a problem
that we would have.
>>DAVID: This is one
of the reasons why,
as I started to learn
about all this stuff--
>>PETERSON: If we
look at people,
if we look at people now and
look at how they react and act
with each other, we
can see that there
are major, major, major
problems in the world
because of how they're
acting, how they're thinking.
So if we have cyborg things
that think the same way,
then they probably would
think that they were better
than biological things, which
in many cases they would be.
>>DAVID: So the things that
you're talking about here are
in development,
like these cyborgs--
they're in development
at the same time
that "Terminator 1" and
"Terminator 2" are coming out.
Cameron apparently is using
the name of your company
as the name of the company
that built these in the movies.
So let's just get right to it.
Do you think that somebody
was leaking information to him
to make movies about this?
>>PETERSON: Well, I know
Cyberdyne was easy for me
to come up with years ago.
>>DAVID: What does it mean?
What's the term mean?
>>PETERSON: Cyber--
>>DAVID: OK.
Which means what?
>>PETERSON: Having
to do with brain.
Dyne being dynamic.
It was a good name at the time.
I took a class on
the fella that name
Exxon and a few other things.
And we had to name a--
in that class, we had
to make up a name.
And that was one I made
up, and got a good grade.
>>DAVID: So do you think
Cameron knows something
or knew something,
was tipped off?
>>PETERSON: Well, most people
have to know something.
I look at things--
I look at modern
science fiction movies,
and I see craft and
things that I know exist.
>>DAVID: Do you think that
the robotic chassis that we
see in the first
"Terminator" film
might be a good design for how
these things might actually
look?
>>PETERSON: Well, it could.
There are many people who are
making that type of thing now.
Some are making it to emulate
a human and look like a human.
Some make it look like
something you'd never
guess that it was a robot.
And there are
things that you may
want to do that don't require
having any human aspect.
>>DAVID: Well,
let's talk about--
and we're going to
keep it hypothetical.
Hypothetically, if
somebody built these,
what might be some of
the weapons systems
that they would have?
What might be some of the
things that they could do?
If you have a human cyborg,
a human-looking cyborg,
but you've got the
power of obviously very
high-density metals, very
powerful motors and equipment,
what could that be and do?
>>PETERSON: Well,
I've seen three things
within the last month on either
a motion picture or television
and in the newspapers.
It was announced two or
three days ago the Marine
Corps had a new cyborg soldier.
>>DAVID: Yes.
>>PETERSON: And it could
independently determine
who was good and who was bad.
I know of a bullet,
we'll call it,
that you can fire into a room,
and look around in the room,
figure out who are the bad guys
and who are innocent children,
people, women, et cetera,
and take care of the bad guys
and not harm the good guys.
>>DAVID: You mentioned
in a previous episode
the microcopter, this
little maple key thing that
can have a piston
inside of it, and it
can control where it goes.
Would it be something like that?
>>PETERSON: Something like that.
There are a lot of things
going on in research that I
read about in magazines that--
a lot of trade magazines
about intelligent ammunition
of various kinds.
>>DAVID: Really?
>>PETERSON: There
are a lot of things--
there was a thing I saw on the
internet about three days ago,
four days ago.
I'd like to bring it back up.
I'm not sure who sent it to me.
And it was maybe meant
for a one-time show.
But it was about some
Russian robotic technology.
They had a small
six-wheeled vehicle.
They had a cannon that could
run around and place itself
and fire and and run
off somewhere else,
just like it was a cannon
built onto a Olympic sprinter.
>>DAVID: If a fully capable
cyborg went up to a human being
and kicked that human
being as hard as it could,
what would happen to the body?
>>PETERSON: Well,
it depends on what
you designed your cyborg to do.
But basically, make the
body look like a football.
>>DAVID: What do you mean
look like a football?
>>PETERSON: Fly through
the air in pieces.
>>DAVID: So there could be
that much power to cause--
>>PETERSON: Oh, yeah,
absolutely, an infinite power,
just depending on how much--
a lot of work going on now
on storing energy, new ways
to store energy.
There are some new cells out
are lithium iron phosphate
cells that hold a
tremendous amount of energy,
and they're very,
very lightweight.
>>DAVID: Let me ask you this,
because we're out of time,
and I just want to wrap it
up with one little thing.
With a movie like "The
Terminator" coming out,
that would suggest that some
people with enough money
to finance a big-budget
Hollywood film are
aware of the potential
problem this could present,
and I would assume
are making sure
that it's not going to be
something that would turn out
like the paranoid
scenario in the movie,
that there are stopgaps in place
to prevent that from becoming
a big, epic world disaster.
>>PETERSON: I think they've
done a wonderful job on trying
to warn us of what is possible.
>>DAVID: Do you think there
are sureties and safeguards
in place that could prevent
that from happening?
>>PETERSON: I haven't seen
mankind do that very well.
>>DAVID: Well, we have
heard quite a bit in "Cosmic
Disclosure" about the
problem of predatory AI,
and we've heard that there
are some very serious security
steps and countermeasures
taken to try
to stop it from spreading.
And so let's hope
that there are.
Let's hope that that's true.
>>PETERSON: Well,
like I say, I think
that the world is coming to
a great change very soon.
I think there's a
financial collapse coming,
or at least a partial one.
And I think that a lot
of these things, we'll
have time to think
about before we do them.
>>DAVID: All right.
That's all the time we have for
this episode of "Disclosure"
with Dr. Pete Peterson.
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
and I thank you for watching.